---
title: 'Paper Summary: AutoDesc: Facilitating Convenient Perusal of Web Data Items for Blind Users'
date: 2023-12-29
permalink: https://ws-dl.blogspot.com/2023/12/2023-12-29-paper-summary-autodesc.html
tags:
  - Web accessibility
  - Screen reader
  - Visual Impairment
---

ACM Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (IUI 2023) marks the 28th annual gathering of the intelligent interfaces community, offering a prominent global platform for showcasing research and advancements in intelligent user interfaces. It is a leading international forum where the worlds of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) converge. The conference was held at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS). The conference welcomes contributions from diverse disciplines, including psychology, behavioral science, cognitive science, computer graphics, design, the arts, and beyond. It is a collaborative space where experts from various fields intersect to explore the frontiers of technology and user experience. Our research paper, "AutoDesc: Facilitating Convenient Perusal of Web Data Items for Blind Users," was published at  IUI 2023.  1217 authors from 45 countries contributed their papers to the conference, showcasing a rich and diverse international participation. The selection process resulted in an acceptance rate of 24.1%.

In this blog post, I look closely at our research paper. Our primary goal is to address the interaction challenges confronted by blind users as they navigate through multiple web pages using screen reader assistive technology. AutoDesc redefines the interaction experience for blind users by employing a custom extraction model to automatically identify and retrieve relevant information, thereby significantly streamlining the navigation process. In a study involving 16 blind participants, our results indicate that, within the same timeframe, AutoDesc empowers users to explore more web data items than their preferred screen readers.
