---
title: 'Paper Summary: All in One Place: Ensuring Usable Access to Online Shopping Items for Blind Users'
date: 2024-08-22
permalink: https://ws-dl.blogspot.com/2024/08/2024-08-22-paper-summary-all-in-one.html
tags:
  - Web usability
  - Screen Reader
  - Online Shopping
---

EICS 2024 marks the sixteenth international ACM SIGCHI conference, focused on engineering interactive computing systems and their user interfaces. The conference explores research at the intersection of user interface design, software engineering, and computational interaction. Our research paper, "All in One Place: Ensuring Usable Access to Online Shopping Items for Blind Users," was published in the June 2024 issue of the Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction, Volume 8, in the EICS category.

In this blog post, I will summarize our research paper, which focuses on alleviating the significant interaction challenges that blind users encounter when navigating through dispersed content across multiple sections and pages on shopping websites. These issues arise because information related to shopping items is frequently spread across different web page sections, requiring users to move back and forth—a task that becomes incredibly tedious and cumbersome for those relying on screen readers. Additionally, even if users become familiar with the structure of one shopping site, they must readapt when encountering a different site with a new layout, as there is no uniform structure across shopping platforms. Our paper proposes a solution that consolidates this dispersed content into a single, consistent, and accessible interface, simplifying the browsing experience for blind users and significantly reducing the time and effort needed to access essential information.

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------