---
title: 'Paper Summary: Modeling Touch-based Menu Selection Performance of Blind Users via Reinforcement Learning'
date: 2023-12-29
permalink: https://ws-dl.blogspot.com/2023/12/2023-12-29-paper-summary-modeling-touch.html
tags:
  - Visual impairment
  - menu accessiblity
  - screen reader
---

The ACM CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, often called 'kai,' is the foremost global conference in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI). This annual event unites a diverse array of researchers and practitioners from around the globe, encompassing a variety of cultures, backgrounds, and perspectives. Their common objective is to enhance the world by developing and applying interactive digital technologies. In this blog post, I explore the research paper co-authored by my professor Dr. Vikas Ashok, titled "Modeling Touch-based Menu Selection Performance of Blind Users via Reinforcement Learning," published in Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.

In this study, researchers developed a computational model to simulate the menu selection methods of blind users, incorporating techniques such as swiping, gliding, and direct touch. A vital feature of this model is its emulation of long-term memory, predicting users' recall or forgetfulness of menu item positions influenced by their previous menu interactions. To validate the model's accuracy, its predictions were compared with data from an empirical study of ten blind users. The model successfully mirrored several factors, including how menu length and layout affected selection time, the nature of actions performed, and the general strategies used by the participants in menu selection.

