---
title: 'Paper Summary: Enabling Customization of Discussion Forums for Blind Users'
date: 2023-12-29
permalink: /posts/2014/08/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Discussion Forums
  - Web accessibility
  - Screen reader
---

EICS 2023 is the 15th international ACM SIGCHI conference, dedicated to engineering interactive computing systems and their user interfaces. The conference has gained recognition for its commitment to advancing research at the intersection of user interface design, software engineering, and computational interaction. EICS provides a platform for contributions that elevate the standards in the engineering of interactive systems. In this blog post, I delve into our research paper titled "Enabling Customization of Discussion Forums for Blind Users," published in the June 2023 issue of Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction, Volume 7, under the EICS category.

In our research, we aimed to unravel the myriad usability challenges encountered by blind participants in online discussion forums. To achieve this, we conducted an interview study involving 12 blind participants with prior experience in online discussion forums. Drawing insights from their usability challenges, we devised a system that empowers blind users to customize the content of forum threads dynamically. In a subsequent user study with 14 blind participants, evaluating the system revealed noteworthy improvements compared to the existing status quo. PView, our system, significantly enhanced usability, reduced workload, and increased participant satisfaction as they interacted with the forums. 

